Blueprint: The Uncertainty-Aware Dynamics Engine (UADE)

We will integrate four sophisticated techniques to provide a unified view of market dynamics and model confidence. This architecture balances structural analysis (L1), tactical execution (L3), and uncertainty quantification (L2).

The Four Pillars of the UADE

    Dynamic Regime Discovery (HDBSCAN): Replacing HMMs with Hierarchical Density-Based Clustering (HDBSCAN). HDBSCAN dynamically discovers the number of regimes and, critically, identifies periods of "Noise" (unstructured behavior) without prior assumptions.

    Predictive Volatility Modeling (EGARCH): Forecasting volatility using EGARCH (Exponential GARCH) captures the asymmetric impact of market shocks (e.g., negative news impacting volatility more than positive news).

    Practical Microstructure Analysis (TFI): Analyzing 1-minute data to detect Trade Flow Imbalance (TFI), which estimates the aggression of buyers vs. sellers and indicates potential informed trading activity.

    Model Uncertainty Quantification (Conformal Prediction): A model-agnostic framework (CP) to measure the real-time reliability of the Hydra ensemble's predictions by generating confidence intervals.

The Integrated Architecture Flow

    L1 (Strategic - 4H): HDBSCAN analyzes macro features, and EGARCH forecasts volatility.

        Output: Regime ID (or NOISE) and Forecasted Volatility.

    L3 (Tactical - 1M/15M): TFI is calculated using 1M data and aligned onto the 15M timeframe.

        Output: Trade Flow Imbalance (TFI).

    Hydra Ensemble (15M): Generates predictions using all features (L1 context + L3 microstructure).

    L2 (Adaptation): Conformal Prediction wraps the Hydra output.

        Output: Prediction Interval Width (Uncertainty Score).

    RL Governor: Synthesizes the data. The Governor's state now includes: [Regime ID, Forecasted Volatility, TFI, Uncertainty Score].

    Adaptive Response: If Regime is NOISE OR Uncertainty Score is High OR Forecasted Volatility is extreme, the RL Governor proactively reduces exposure.

Detailed Implementation To-Do List

Phase 1: Data Pipeline Upgrade (High-Frequency Data)

1.1. Acquire and Process 1-Minute Data

    Files: config.py, data_processing_v2.py

    Steps:

        Update config.py: TIMEFRAMES = {'strategic': '4h', 'tactical': '15m', 'microstructure': '1m'}.

        Modify get_market_data to fetch 1M OHLCV data concurrently using asynchronous fetching (ccxt.async_support).

Phase 2: Dynamic Regime Discovery (L1)

2.1. Install Libraries

    pip install hdbscan scikit-learn

2.2. Define Regime Feature Set

    New File: forge/strategy/regime_features.py

    Task: Define inputs for clustering on the 4H timeframe (e.g., rolling correlations between assets, ATR, volume metrics).

2.3. Implement HDBSCAN Clustering

    New Module: forge/strategy/dynamic_regimes.py (Refactor HMM logic from hydra.py here).

    Steps:

        Initialize HDBSCAN. The min_cluster_size parameter controls sensitivity.

        Periodically (e.g., weekly, managed by wfo_manager.py), fit the clusterer on the recent history of the Regime Feature Set.

        Real-time Classification: Use hdbscan.approximate_predict() to classify the most recent data point efficiently without refitting the whole model.

        Interpretation: A label of -1 indicates the data point is noise (unstructured market behavior). The output (Cluster ID or -1) becomes the Strategic Regime.

Phase 3: Predictive Volatility Modeling (L1)

3.1. Install Libraries

    pip install arch

3.2. Implement EGARCH(1,1)

    New Module: forge/modeling/volatility_engine.py

    Steps:

        Define the EGARCH(1,1) model specification using the arch library.

        Implement a rolling fitting procedure on the 4H returns.

        Generate a 1-step ahead volatility forecast periodically (e.g., every hour).

        Output: Forecasted Volatility.

Phase 4: Practical Microstructure Implementation (L3)

4.1. Implement Trade Flow Imbalance (TFI) via Lee-Ready/Tick Rule

    New Module: forge/data_processing/microstructure_features.py

    Goal: Estimate the aggression of buyers vs. sellers using 1M data.

    Steps:

        Implement the Tick Rule (classify as buy if price increased from the last trade) or the more sophisticated Lee-Ready algorithm on the 1M data. This approximates trade direction (buyer or seller initiated).

        Calculate TFI: (Volume_Buy_Initiated - Volume_Sell_Initiated) / Total_Volume.

        Calculate a rolling EMA of the TFI.

        Alignment (CRITICAL): Carefully align the 1M TFI data onto the 15M Tactical timeframe. Use pandas.merge_asof(..., direction='backward') or resample().ffill().shift(1) to strictly prevent lookahead bias.

Phase 5: Model Uncertainty Quantification (L2)

5.1. Install Libraries

    pip install mapie (MAPIE is a robust, modern library for conformal prediction).

5.2. Implement Conformal Prediction (CP)

    New File: forge/models/uncertainty_wrapper.py

    Task: Wrap the Tactical Hydra ensemble predictions.

    Steps:

        Implement Inductive Conformal Prediction (ICP).

        Define a calibration set (recent data held out from the main training).

        Initialize and fit MAPIE (e.g., MapieClassifier) using the calibration data to calculate "nonconformity scores" (past errors). This fitting should be updated periodically (e.g., daily).

5.3. Generate Uncertainty Scores

    File: singularity_engine.py

    Steps:

        When Hydra makes a prediction, pass it through the trained MAPIE wrapper.

        MAPIE outputs a prediction interval for a desired confidence level (e.g., 90%).

        Feature Engineering: Calculate the width of the interval. Wide interval = High Uncertainty. This is the Uncertainty Score.

Phase 6: System Integration and RL Adaptation

6.1. Feature Integration

    File: data_processing_v2.py

    Action: Ensure all new features (HDBSCAN Regime ID, EGARCH Forecasted Volatility, TFI, Uncertainty Score) are correctly aligned in the final 15M dataset.

6.2. Update Tactical Models

    File: models_v2.py

    Action: Retrain the Hydra ensemble (LGBM, Online models) to utilize TFI and the new L1 context features as inputs.

6.3. Evolve the RL Governor (The Nexus)

    File: rl_governor.py

    Task: Upgrade the Governor to manage the system based on dynamics and uncertainty.

    Steps:

        Expand State Space: Add HDBSCAN Regime ID, EGARCH Forecasted Volatility, TFI, and Uncertainty Score to the observation space.

        Refine Reward Function:

            Heavily penalize exposure when the Uncertainty Score is high.

            Heavily penalize exposure when the HDBSCAN Regime ID is -1 (NOISE).

            Penalize exposure during extreme EGARCH volatility forecasts.

            Reward actions that align with strong TFI signals during stable regimes (defined clusters) and low uncertainty.

        Retraining: Retrain the RL agent to navigate the market using this enhanced environmental awareness.